Welcome back. Now that we have a good sense of what
a competitive content analysis is and how it can identify competitors, let's
take this knowledge to the next level. In this lesson, we'll expand and refine the competitive content analysis
spreadsheet we created in the last lesson, giving you an effective tool for
analyzing your competition. By the end of this lesson, you'll be
able to gather important data and enter it into your spreadsheet. When I analyze competitor sites,
I make a list of resources and content pages that they have available. I'll also make notes about
a couple things as I go along. I'll note the URL of the page
the content exists on. This way I can reference
the content later if I need to. I'll create a column called Content,
and what I mean here is whether or not this type of content is a static page, an
infographic, a video, or something else. I'll also note the content type. This way I can easily remember what
it is when I reference it later. I'll also make any notes that I have
about the content as I go along. I include a column for links. I'll generally track links
by the number of domains linking to the individual pages. You can get these metrics from
Moz's Open Site Explorer, or other tools like Atrex or Majestic SEO. Then I track a variety
of social media signals. This allows me to see how the target
audience is interacting with the content, if they are at all. You can download the spreadsheet
I'm using in this presentation and view the spreadsheet as I go along. Alternatively, you can download it for
use later as a template. I went ahead and
filled out Chegg's site as an example. They have a variety of
different content types, more than any of the other
sites listed here. So there's a lot of
information to be gathered, and this is the best example to use. I found content that was blocked behind
a login, which I colored gray for my own reference. The content colored in green
was hidden behind a paywall, requiring a monthly
subscription to access. In addition, I noticed that all three of these pages
are nearly identical to one another. So from an SEO perspective, there's
a lot of room for improvement here. I also found that two great resources,
their blog and a page dedicated to music,
were on subdomains. This means that the main
domain isn't getting all of the authority
from inbound links and social shares that the subdomains
are getting, which is a lot in this case. This is a huge missed opportunity
from an SEO and content standpoint. You should now have an idea of what
you should pay attention to when analyzing content on competitor sites. You should also have an idea of how to
keep track of your findings in Excel. Feel free to use the example provided or create your own Excel file that makes
the most sense to you and your process. That completes the video
portion of this lesson.