Hello again,
now that we know how to gather and analyze content on our competitor's site,
in this lesson, we'll take a look at how
to analyze social signals. Social sites, such as Facebook,
Twitter, LinkedIn and Google+, all contain important data
that can be central to our success. We'll also look at some easily accessible
online tools that will help us unlock and analyze this data. Next, I filled in the social media data. I used a tool called ShareMetric,
which is a free Chrome extension. There's a lot of different and
similar tools out there to choose from. Basically, whenever you are looking at
a page, you can click on the ShareMetric icon for detail on social shares, and it
will break all of this data out for you. While analyzing this,
I can immediately see a few things. Chegg's audience is very
active on social channels. I bet if we created content with
the right calls to action for comments, shares, or
another type of social interaction, we would be able to get a lot
of traction out of that. I also see that people use Google+ to
plus one content pretty frequently, this is good to know. A plus one button would be really
important to include within the content. Pinterest is the least popular,
but to be honest, none of these pages have very
pin worthy graphics either. Given how active this audience
is on other social networks and the fact that there are still some pins,
I bet if the client emphasized pinnable images within their content ,they could
increase engagement and shares here. LinkedIn seems to be the most
popular with career related posts. This makes a lot of sense. So if the client were
to create any of these, sharing to LinkedIn would
be really valuable. It might be worthwhile to add a specific
call to action on these posts that mentions sharing with
their audience on LinkedIn. Perhaps even some content that
might appeal to college students, such as using LinkedIn to find a job or best ways to optimize your LinkedIn
profile as a recent graduate. Another thing I like to do is add up all
of the columns, so I can get a good idea of what type of social sharing and
content is the most popular. The vertical axis shows the type of
social sharing people use the most, while the horizontal shows which pages
get the most social shares and links. So we can see that Facebook likes and
comments outweigh anything else. So having a strong Facebook
presence is a good idea. Google plus ones outweigh Facebook shares,
and Twitter is the next most
popular sharing platform. We can also see that the most shared
page is scholarship matching, followed by homework help, which is
unfortunately a paid for resource. We can probably create some free
homework related resources to increase social sharing on our site. You want to make sure you're not copying
your competitor's content strategies but using this to come up with
your own original ideas that take advantage of
the insights you have gained. Let's use something like
homework help as an example. We know off the bat that we can create
an area that helps students with their homework. But this is a really time
intensive solution to develop. However, having a section of our blog dedicated to homework help might be
a step in the right direction and would be a great resource that
we can build up over time. From our analysis of our first competitor,
we have gained the following insights about both our target audience and
our competition. We know that our target audience
are big social sharers, so it's a great idea to include
calls to action to share and also take advantage of social
media to spread content. We can add some topics like homework
help and career related posts. This will increase interaction and
engagement. We have also learned that our competition
has some good SEO in place, but are also making some mistakes,
such as having duplicate pages and hosting great content on subdomains. The next step is to
complete this process for each of your main competitors and
note your findings as you go. Following the steps laid out in this
lesson, you should now be able to analyze your competition to determine
what types of content they are producing, and identify areas of opportunity for
your site. That completes the video
portion of this lesson.